This is my great little announcement.
We got lost there.
MRJ225 is done.
For those of you still working with that,
it should be available early next week,
sometime next week.
So we're going to talk about
security features on OS X for Java.
And specifically we got a couple of
questions we want to answer today.
And
These are questions we've
seen on Java dev through DTS.
and I will be talking about this in
a few informal conversations as well.
First of all,
is there any difference between
what Apple did as far as
Java security is concerned and what
Sun did on Windows and Solaris?
Second of all,
will my signed applet work on OS X?
And last of all, we don't integrate with
Internet Explorer like we did on 9.
So how do you get a secure connection?
We'll talk about all these things today.
And specific,
what you're going to learn about,
I'm going to give you an introduction
to Java 2 Security Model plus
the very few OS X specific
details that there are about it.
We're going to talk about how to
sign JAR files so we work with
Internet Explorer on OS X and
the Windows version of Netscape.
And finally,
how to make a secure connection
without Internet Explorer.
That includes in your application.
And finally,
I'll give you some tips for how to
debug security problems in your code
if you ever get an exception that
you don't know how to deal with.
First of all,
we have a little bit of news as
far as the security management
on Java and OS X works.
The security architecture is completely
identical to other platforms.
We've made no changes,
there are no compromises,
there are no things you have to
leave out to get your security
related code working on OS X.
There's no support for extra
features such as JAR signing,
JAR caching, or any of those other things
in the Applet Launcher or the
Command Line Applet Viewer.
We'll talk about why that is,
and that's mainly because we
want to keep those two tools,
Applet Launcher and Applet Viewer,
as close to the baseline Applet Viewer
that's available on all platforms.
The signed apple support is the
same as that which you get in MRJ.
And we'll talk about
exactly what that means.
But what it means is that
if you sign an apple in MRJ,
it will continue to work in OS X.
So let's talk a little bit about
the old 1.1X security model and
how the way things used to work.
First of all, security was an all or
nothing proposition.
You could either sign your jar
or your application had full
access or it had no access at all.
Now this is good or bad
depending on your point of view.
The sandbox restrictions on
an applet were just way too
limiting for real works,
particularly in a corporate environment.
If you deliver your code as an
applet and you want to be able to
write to the user's hard drive,
for example, you had to sign the applet,
you had to do a whole lot of--jump
through a lot of hoops just to
do something pretty basic in an
environment that you control.
Security checks were
not easily accessible,
and by that we mean that if you
wanted to add a new permission,
you wanted to add something
new to what your code could do,
it was really a pain in the butt to do.
You had to write your own,
a whole new security manager, you had to,
um,
You know,
carefully construct it so that your
code knew about that security manager.
Just a lot of work that really
shouldn't have been necessary.
A locally installed apple
is too easily trusted.
If I download an apple to my hard drive,
there's nothing that says that
apple could wipe out my drive just
as easily as an application could.
So the new model doesn't assume
that there's trusted code.
Security managers are too easily broken.
And in 1.1,
very often security was determined
by the current stack depth.
And if you make a change
somewhere in your code that
relies on that stack depth,
that changes that, you've suddenly broken
your security model.
That's really more fragile
than it really ought to be.
So going forward,
we have the new Java 2 security model.
It's a policy-based architecture.
I'll talk a little bit about what
policy-based means in a minute.
You get a collection of permissions
specified for a particular code base.
And we'll see examples of that
in the system-wide Java policy.
Code is granted permission to perform
actions based on where it came from.
So what you do is you can
specify a particular applet
or particular application,
give it different abilities
than you would any other
piece of code on your system,
and give it different abilities than any
other application or Java application.
Finally, no code is trusted by default
regardless of location.
This is probably the biggest
change between Java 2 and Java 1.1.
Just because you put it on
your hard drive doesn't mean
it's automatically trusted.
If you put your jar in /lib/ext,
it is fully trusted,
but that's the only location.
So here's what a policy
file entry looks like.
And what you'll see is,
We have a grant and the
sign-by and a code base.
And the signer name, as you see,
you know,
sign-by signer name are both in the
grant and for the particular permission.
The signer names are aliases
that come out of your key store.
So if you import some certificates
and you want to associate those
certificates with particular permissions,
that's how you make the linkage.
And another thing I want to point
out is we have a permission,
permission class name, target name,
and action.
Target name and action can
be thought of as arguments,
if you will, to the permission.
So for example,
you'll have something called
a property permission.
And the target name is the
name of the property that
you want to allow access to,
and the action is what
the user can do to it.
Or the code, I should say,
can do to that property.
It can read it or write it, for example.
Okay,
if we go to first demo machine here,
I'm going to show you what Java.policy
looks like on the default system.
I'm sorry, the system-wide policy.
If you take a look here,
we see that here's a list of,
in the first section we see this
grant with no arguments to it.
That means that any code has
these permissions assigned to it.
And in particular,
Any code is allowed to listen
to a socket above 1024 or above.
We have this list of property permissions
that you're allowed to get at.
Java.version, line.separator,
things like that.
And down here at the end,
We have the Apple specific properties,
in particular MRJ.version.
And we think it's important that
you still be able to know what
version of MRJ you're looking at.
And finally the last one is
com.apple Mac OS.uscreenMenubar.
And this is used in Swing to
get the menu bar to appear
where you want it to appear,
at the top of the screen.
I believe that,
I can't remember right now exactly.
I think by default it's false.
But the important thing is that
you can set it to where you want
it and there won't be any issues.
Now,
if your code is cross platform and you do
set either of those last two properties,
you may get a security
exception on another system.
That's not a big deal.
All you have to do is wrap that
set property call with the try
catch block and catch the security
exception that comes back.
And, you know,
you just know if it's a security
exception for that particular property,
big deal.
Go on and continue on in your code.
So these are some examples of
permissions and what they look like.
You can create your own permissions,
we won't get into that in this session.
But, uh, you
[Transcript missing]
So there are a number of ways
you establish the policy on OS X.
You can do it in one of three ways.
Actually not one,
you can do it any of these
three ways in any combination.
There's a system-wide policy which
I just showed you in the last demo there.
And that's stored in the Java home
directory which is /library/java/home.
And then you continue on
through libsecurity/java.policy.
That's where that file lives.
You can set it on a per user basis.
In your home directory if you
create a file called .java.policy,
put any number of permissions,
those will be added on to
the default system-wide set.
And finally you can set it on a per
application basis and you can bundle
a policy spec inside your Java app.
We'll show that in a little bit
how you would go about doing that.
This is important.
Policy files do not supersede each other.
They're always additive.
So if I put things in my .java.policy,
they don't-- I suppose it's possible
to get like contradictory permissions,
but they would just add together.
So if something in the default
policy only allows you read access,
you could theoretically add on a write
access and stomp over everything.
So you have to watch what you're doing.
So as an example,
we're going to look at GENIE.
We took a lot of heat
because GENIE didn't work in,
which is a, GENIE is a distributed
environment and it didn't work,
it didn't work at all in the public beta.
It does work in GM.
I believe it works very well.
We've gotten good feedback about that.
So we've got two applications,
one that wraps up the basic
providers and another one that's
the simple service browser.
The browser needs its own policy
file and there are a number
of additional permissions that
are needed for that to run.
We can do everything in MRJ App Builder.
And if we head back over
to the demo machine,
I'll show you how we do that.
So,
here's the Genie services application.
Just show how that's running there.
Here we have MRJ App Builder.
And what I've done is I've set up
The main class here
and the genie examples,
just like you do in
and any other MRJ app builder app.
If you look over here on
the Java properties page,
you'll see down here I've
specified java.security.policy.
java.security.policy and then
the name of the policy file.
And one thing to note is actually
pretty important in this.
If you notice that the class
pass says content/resources/java.
But the java.property,
since the security policy
property is geniebrowser.policy,
so there's no additional
path information.
When you bundle it,
all the jars and the policies will
all be together in one directory.
And the way that we load the class
is it's not necessary to specify
that extra path information.
And to show you briefly what
that policy file looks like,
I'll open it up here.
Okay.
And here I've granted on a global
basis the additional ability to connect
and accept connections on local host,
or actually to any server,
that's what the star means.
And again, I can connect to anybody's
web server on port 80.
And down here I have the
Genie specific properties,
and in specific I've granted
the ability to connect and
accept on the multicast ports,
and I've also got the permission
to look at the discovery,
to use the discovery
permission properties.
When I do that, I can bundle everything
up with MRJ App Builder,
and I've already done that for you here.
If we cross our fingers,
the browser is going to identify all
the services running on this machine.
I say cross your fingers
because as those of you who have
worked with networking know,
you need to specify a host name.
We don't have DNS set up for these guys.
So hopefully this will show up something.
Look at that.
It did find it.
Great.
Yay.
So there you go.
Genie's up and running and if that's
something you're interested in,
go ahead and 10 is a great
platform for developing for it.
So let's go back to the slides please.
Why should you care?
This is new stuff to learn.
What we're going to learn today
is not going to be enough to
completely learn everything
there is to learn about security,
so why should you take the extra effort?
Policy files make sense when you
have control over the environment.
If you're in a corporate setting,
you've got your own machines
that you have control over,
where you can set the
environment to your liking,
then you should consider using a
policy file instead of going to
the extra hassle of signing your
application or signing your code.
In-house apps,
special purpose networking such
as GENIE as I showed before,
intranet applets.
If you deliver your code with an applet,
instead of going through
the trouble of signing it,
you can just say, you know,
this applet has full permissions
or this applet has permission to
read and write files off the disk.
What if you can't control it?
Say you want to send out something
that's available to everybody,
you want to put it out
on the internet proper.
If that's what you're going to do,
then you need to use a sign jar file.
We're going to talk about
signed JAR file support on OS X.
It's available in the OS X embedded
Java that's in Internet Explorer.
That's the only place it's available.
provides that you'll get a pop-up dialog
to let the user validate the signer.
I will see a demo of
that in a few minutes.
It will continue to support jar files
that were signed for MRJ 2.2 or .x.
That's the old DSA with
the identity object.
Those things continue to work.
With some extra setup work,
we will support RSA signed applets.
We'll talk about what that
means here on the next slide.
And if your certificate is based on
a VeriSign or Thoughts certificate,
that will also work on OS X.
You'll get identical support to what you
get on Internet Explorer or Navigator.
So what do I mean by a
little bit of extra work?
Well, there's two things you could do.
You can install the Java Secure
Sockets Extension 102.
That gives you the RSA provider
that you need to read and
understand the RSA signature and
to do the signing for that matter.
Or you could copy sunrsasign.jar from
a Windows installation from the JRE.
That's a pure Java file.
It'll just come over and
work just fine on 10.
Signed JAR files get full
execution permission,
and using the lingo of what we've been
talking about for Java 2 security,
that's the equivalent of
Java.security.all permission.
And as far as what used to work in MRJ,
that's, you get the same behavior
that you would have had,
that you have when you
sign an applet app,
when you sign a JAR file on MRJ.
You can use either Java 2's code
signing tools from the command line,
or you can use the Netscape
signing tools if that's something
you've done in the past.
There's currently no control panel,
so to speak,
for the management of certificates.
Apple's got a lot of good technologies
for managing certificates and
keys and things like that now,
and we're going to be looking at
integrating those in the future.
No promises, we need to think about the
right way to handle this,
but we're not going to do just a
simple straight port of what you saw on
Windows with the plug-in in particular.
I'd like to bring up Ted who's going to
show you how to do JAR signing on OS X.
Good morning.
Happy Friday.
So, let's clean this up a little bit.
How many of you have
signed applets on MRJ?
Yeah, that was fun, huh?
So, Mac OS X is much easier.
You look at the books for UNIX,
and it's the same thing.
I'm going to start out
with the key store.
Create the key store.
Let me remove one.
Okay, great.
There's none in there.
And let me just type this in right now.
We're going to generate the key store.
The key store is where your
certificates are stored.
So use the key tool.
And what we're going to
do is generate a key.
And we're going to use the alias.
[Transcript missing]
So this goes through and it'll ask you
for your default key store password.
And for this,
I'm just going to use key store PSWD.
I wouldn't recommend that for
most actual secure environments.
It'll ask for your name.
This whole thing,
it's going through when you're
generating a certificate.
The certificate carries with
it the information about
who you are and all that.
So I'll go
[Transcript missing]
California, and that's US.
Yes, that's all correct.
It takes a few seconds to do this.
It's generating large numbers and, uh,
[Transcript missing]
generate a simple hello world
applet that I changed to actually
Get the user directory,
which is normally not allowed of applets.
Let's see, let's bring that actually up.
[Transcript missing]
For some reason,
Project Builder isn't liking me.
So let's go ahead and
just quit Project Builder.
[Transcript missing]
I have a shell script that goes ahead,
signs the jar,
the alias MOV and the key store password.
I have it set up also so that if
MOV has a separate password you can
add that to the end and it will pass
that all in to the jar signing tool.
So that makes it much easier
than the old MRJ signing process.
So right now it's going through.
[Transcript missing]
and I'll just show you really
quick bringing this up in IE.
Now for this you're going to need the
new IE that came out on software update.
You also need to install the
Java Secure Socket Extension.
But once you do that, you
[Transcript missing]
So you see it's a lot
easier than it used to be.
And hopefully we get less
questions about how to do this now.
Let's talk a little bit about
how you go about debugging
problems with security on OS X.
You can find out why you're
getting security exceptions.
I still run into this all the time.
When I was doing all
my demos for this talk,
I would get things like, "Oh,
you don't have this property
permission." I'd say,
"Well, what do you mean?
"I just put it in the policy file.
"What do you mean
I don't have permission?"
So I pull my hair out for a little bit.
And then I set the property
Java.security.debug.
And in specific, well,
that will tell you how to get
all the available options.
But the one I used for--to
debug the problems with my
demos is I set equal to policy.
And the cool thing about that is
that it will go through every policy
that's currently defined for your
current application on the user level
and at the system level and will dump
all the policies currently in effect.
So you can see what
permissions are set and,
you know, what Java thinks that the
permissions currently are.
Okay, a good thing to check is debug
equal access and that will show
you all the property check,
the permission checks that are
going on through your code.
And if you open up the console window,
well,
if you're running an MRJ app builder
or project builder build application,
go to the console and you'll be able
to see all these things dumped out.
If you're running a command line app,
it will just spew out
on the terminal window.
I know that this is thoroughly
documented anywhere,
but if you start with DebugEagle's help,
you'll get the whole list of
options that are available to you.
[Transcript missing]
It's also possible to use the
Java 2 security features to test
your signed applet even before you
go to the effort of signing it.
So you're basing it on a commercial-based
security and it takes a little bit
of time to get that certificate.
That doesn't stop you
from doing your work.
created a file called thatjava.policy
in your home directory.
Now this will set it on
the user basis again.
and add this entry:
Grant the code base and
the path to your JAR file,
permission java.security.allpermission.
You'll effectively have the same
thing as when you do sign your applet.
That's the exact same permission
that you're going to get when the
user accepts your certificate.
You'll be able to see these in
the slides later on in the video.
So--and I've also
posted this to Java Dev,
so if you search around the archives,
you'll find this as well.
Okay, let's switch gears now and
we'll talk about how to do
secure connections in MRJ,
or talk about secure
connections in general.
And first let's talk about what
you had available to you in MRJ.
In MRJ you could only make
a secure connection that was
based around a URL connection.
And even then,
you can only do it inside of IE5.
And even then, it was buggy.
makes secure connections on OS X using
the Java Secure Socket Extension.
That's a pure
Java implementation of SSL v3.
Also supports TLS,
which is the more open standard of SSL.
Go to java.sun.com/products/jsSE.
You'll get all the information
you need on how to download it,
how to install it.
You're basically copying three jars
over to your /lib/ext directory
and modifying a security file.
You can also bundle it
into your application.
You know, they're just JAR files.
You can, you know,
attach it on your application without
any intervention on the user's part.
The JSSE is what's called a
non-commercial reference implementation,
which means it works,
works well enough as
far as Sun's concerned,
but it doesn't have a
full-blown set of documentation,
support, and all the goodies that come
along with a real product.
The main purpose of JSSE is to
establish the API that will be used
going forward for secure sockets.
So if you write to the API that
comes along with this package,
you'll be good for future versions
that may be better or third-party
solutions that will be available,
hopefully, based on this API.
Pay attention to what you download.
The US and Canada version will
allow third parties to write their
own RSA implementations and plug
those into the JSSE architecture.
The international version
has the same level of
The same strength of encryption.
I believe they both
have 128 bit encryption.
The international version will
not allow you to plug in somebody
else's RSA implementation,
for example.
You can only use what
Sun will ever provide.
Okay, I want to briefly show you an
example of an application that's
bundled in SSL and how it would work.
And that's something called SecureFTP.
You can get this from www.glub.com.
and unfortunately due to
some networking problems,
I'm not going to be able
to show you how to make a,
how to do an actual secure FTP.
They're also going to be in the future
making a little wrapper so you can make
a secure FTP server out of your default
FTP server that's built into OS X.
As you can see, this is actually a pretty
good looking Aqua application.
Got some internal frames.
[Transcript missing]
So to show you what you can do with it,
you can specify--
You know, where you want to go to,
username and password.
Over here you can set whether
you're going to use SSL or
not use a secure connection.
Passive FTP encrypt what you're
getting if you need a proxy to
do the actual communication.
This actually ends up being a less
than interesting demonstration,
but it is a good example of how you
can use SSL in your application to
[Transcript missing]
So, if we go back to the slides,
we'll actually talk about how
you can do this in your code now.
So what can you do with JSSE?
You can create an
HTTPS based URL connection,
the same way you do now.
It's almost identical.
There's like one or two extra
steps that you need to do.
You can create a secure connection
at the socket API level.
So you can get back a socket that's
got a secure connection backing
it and talk to it just the same
way as you would a plain socket.
And again, once you have that
socket or URL connection,
you talk to it exactly the
same way as you did now.
How do you use it?
Well,
there's a couple ways you can do it.
There's three jars that you
bundle into your application.
I'm going to talk about the case where
you bundle the jars in with your app
because I think that's going to be
the most common use of this package.
Okay, what you need to do next is in
the first line of your code or
near the beginning of your code,
you want to register the SSL provider
with the security system.
And the way you see to do that is
you create an instance of that big,
long, ugly package name and create
the SSL provider and register
it with add provider.
Now what you do next depends
on what you're going to try
to accomplish with JSSE.
For an HTTPS connection,
first thing you have to do
is define this property,
java.protocol.handler.pkgs.
And what this will do is it
will add that handler package
to the search path of the,
add it to the search path when
we look up a URL connection.
You can either do this
on the command line,
if you're just writing
a command line app.
You can set it in your app's
property file with MRJ App Builder,
or you can set it explicitly
with set property in your code.
Before I continue on Secure Sockets,
I'm going to show you
some code that does that.
Go to the demo machine here.
And, let's see,
we had to quit Project Builder,
so I'll open it up again.
Okay, so we take a look here
and we have a very,
I've written a very,
very simple application that's
going to fetch the home page from,
from Amazon.com,
which supports secure connections.
And there you see the
URL I'm using to do it.
If you look down here,
this do the fetch method is
the actual interesting piece of
code that's doing all the work.
If you didn't know that this
was an SSL demonstration,
that could be any, you know,
that's very standard URL connection code.
We'll do a, you know, open the stream,
get the input stream,
and we're going to just count how
many lines we get back from it.
However, if you look up here,
Here's that line where I do the add
provider that I mentioned before.
And here's where I set the
property that says to look in the
SSL package for the protocol handler.
And instead of spewing out all
the lines that we get back,
I'm going to run this
and I'm going to show you
Some of the features of JSSE,
or I'm sorry,
one of the characteristics of it,
it is running, it looks like we're hung,
but that's because when JSSE starts
up for the first time in your
app it's spending some time
generating keys and you know,
building up a, you know,
working with secure random.
The first thing I've done in this
code is I actually do a fetch twice.
And there you see we've got some results.
So the first time it took, what is that,
about 18.4 seconds to
fetch 3500 lines of code.
And the second time it took 1.6.
So the first time you use a connection,
it's going to be kind of slow,
but after that you get pretty
good performance out of it.
So, the secret to HTTPS connections
are these two lines right
here when you install JSSE.
Okay, let's go back to the slides.
Alright,
now we'll talk about the other case,
which is the Secure Socket case.
Very similar to a plain socket,
but again,
with just a few extra steps to get
your code to use a secure connection.
You need to get an instance
of the SSL socket factory.
The JSSE introduces a new factory
method of obtaining sockets,
and the default one that comes with
it will generate secure sockets.
You ask the factory to create an
SSL socket to a specific host.
And at that point, you've got now,
you've basically got a socket,
a Java net socket,
and you can talk to it just
as you would any other socket.
You can get an input or output
stream on the socket and just start
pumping data in or out from it.
Oh.
So let's again go back
to the demo machine.
[Transcript missing]
I'm going to get the
default SSL socket factory,
and when you import javax.net.ssl.star,
that's where you'll get the SSL factory.
I ask you to create a socket to
Amazon.com on the secure port of 443.
And you might want to read
these comments which talks
about some of the problems that,
you know, if you run into an
SSL error along the way,
you want to look at printrider.checkerror
and that's how you'll get back
the error that was generated.
Next I call Socket.StartHandshake.
This is a
Let's see.
I think the SSL socket
will do it by default,
but you can do it manually because
that way you'll be able to see
the IO exceptions that happen.
And once I've got that socket,
from this point on,
I've basically got ordinary socket code.
And once again, it's almost identical to
using an ordinary socket.
So let's run that and I'll
show you what happens here.
Again, we're going to have a
little bit of startup time,
but what this is going to do is
make a connection to Amazon.com
and report back all the headers
that we get back in response to it.
and I actually found it and
we got a cookie back I think.
And we actually see that
it was an HTTPS connection.
So, there you go.
It's very easy to do this stuff.
I have to admit the first time
I looked at that I thought,
"Oh, it can't be that easy."
But it actually is.
and I don't claim to be an SSL expert.
I don't know the guts of its internal
implementation or anything like that,
but I don't have to,
which I think is a good thing.
Okay, let's go back to the slides.
Here are some resources for JSSE.
I'll give you a chance
to write all these down.
The best place to start
is the JSSE homepage,
java.sun.com/products/jsse.
And there was an excellent
article earlier this year in Dr.
Dobbs about using JSSE,
and in particular,
there was a good discussion about
generating certificates that you can use
with a JSSE to create a server that will,
you know, create a server that will,
you know,
You can be a server recipient
of an SSL connection,
not just a client of an SSL session.
and that's actually a very good
article about how to do the
housekeeping to get that to happen.
We can go back later on if you want to,
you know, if you haven't written this
down or you can look at it in
the slides in a little bit.
So what's next?
I would recommend that if security
is something that's in Java,
that's something that's important to you,
I would go out and get
a book on the topic.
Sun has published a really good
book on the security architecture.
If you look on Amazon.com,
you'll find at least 10
books now on Java security.
I would get one and read it and learn
about how to write your own properties,
how to work with security architecture.
Install JSSE if you
haven't done so already.
That'll get you the
RSA provider that you need.
And it's available right now and you
can start figuring out how to use it.
But before you do any of that,
we've got the Java feedback
forum right after this in J1.
So please come to that if you've got any
questions and give us feedback on all
the great sessions we've had this year.
If you've got any questions, Alan.
See Alan.